At this point.
We went through all the theory of Jenkins jobs and Jenkins file.
Time to put all that theory into action.
In this lecture, we are going to build a Docker container image and push that image to a container
repository such as Docker hub.
All right.
Let's get started.
Before we jump into Jenkins, it is very important to understand the high level flow of Docker build
and push.
So when you, the almighty developer, push your application code along with the Docker file in your
GitHub repository, you need to first build the Docker container image by running this Docker file and
you run this by running the command docker build.
Once Docker build finishes, it creates the container image in the agent.
So if you are running this command in AC two, it's going to create that container image within that
easy too.
At this point, you need to push this container image to a container repository such as Docker hub.
You do that by running the command Docker push, and when you do that, your container image moves to
the container image repository and from there it can be deployed to a Kubernetes cluster.
Now, this Docker push command is not just really Docker push because you need to log in to your container
repository.
So under the hood you need to run Docker login to log in to your Docker hub account, then Docker push
to push the container image and then Docker log out to log out from your repository.
So that's what we are going to do with the Jenkins job.
Let's jump into the Jenkins console and my GitHub repository to understand under the DevOps cause repository
you will see this folder, push docker image, click this and then we have all the necessary artifacts.
This real world project is useful in understanding not just how to build and push container image,
but also how to work with a subfolder in your repository.
Till this point, everything was under the main branch, under the main root folder DevOps course.
But in this case we have a soft folder.
So let's go over the application program and the Docker file and Jenkins file.
The application program is super straightforward.
It's importing the Flask library and then just returning dev hops rocks.
The external dependencies are listed in requirements dot text.
So whatever I put in requirements, dot text needs to be installed within the Docker container image.
So in this case, I'm installing flask version 1.1.1.
All right.
Now let's take a look at the Docker file.
The Docker file is grabbing the standard image of Python 3.8 Slim Buster, creating a slash app wide
directory, copying over the requirements, the text and then running pip install to grab that requirements
dot text packages in this case flask and then copying everything and then starting the container.
Now let's go over the important part that Jenkins file to log in to Docker Hub.
We need the Docker Hub credentials.
The credentials are stored under Docker Hub ID in Jenkins credentials.
So in this case, I'm defining an environment section and I'm saving the Docker hub user ID and password
in this Docker hub underscore creds environment variable note that as soon as you do that, Jenkins
is going to save the user ID inside Docker hub, underscore creds, underscore user or user and the
password with Docker hub underscore creds, underscore p as W you don't need to define these two variables
separately.
Then we have a few stages.
First, we want to clone the repository.
So this part we already know.
So we are just going to do check out sxm.
When you set up your Jenkins job, you have to point the SM to the GitHub repository and whenever you
do check out Sxm, it's going to clone that repository through the Jenkins agent.
Alternatively, you can also give the URL of the repository here.
It does the same thing and we are going to see that as an example in the other reusable projects.
And then I'm just running the LZ Asterix command to show that everything is copied over and then I'm
building the image.
So this is where we need to run Docker, build command.
So we are running S-H and then Docker build and Dusty is tagging the image.
So there are two ways to do this.
So the commented line shows if you want to use the tag latest, then you don't need to put this call
on build number.
But then using latest is not the best practice because you will keep overwriting the image.
And if you do that by mistake, your production workload can suffer.
So the best practice to use a unique tag.
So every time this job runs, this built underscore number is a standard Jenkins provided environment
variable.
You do not need to define it in environment section, so it is going to tag the image with my Docker
hub, user ID and the repository and then the build number.
And this is another important part you have to specify where is the Docker file?
In our case, the Docker file is not under route.
It is under the folder push docker image.
So you have to give dot slash push docker image, front slash and then you have to do Docker logging.
There are two ways to do that.
You can do Docker logging, then the user ID as the Docker hub creates underscore user password.
Docker hub creates password, which is a straightforward way.
But the problem with this is in certain cases this will leave the password visible in the console output
and the logs of the jobs which you don't want to do.
The best practice is to do it this way.
You echo this Docker hub creates password, but it actually is not going to show in the console output.
It is going to grab that password and put it in password dustbin and then you run the Docker login command
with the user ID and then the password that it captured from the echo.
And then comes the Docker Push Command.
If you have used latest, you don't need to put the build number.
I commented this again because this is not the best practice.
You can simply run Docker Push and then the Docker hub, user ID and the repository, but instead we
want to use a specific tag.
So we are running Docker push user ID repository and then the tag.
And once everything is done, it is a best practice to do log out.
So I'm running a sage docker log out.
One thing to keep in mind that let's say a Jenkins job fails in this stage.
So basically the build image is successful, but it fails in the log in.
You cannot restart from this stage y because the Docker push is using the build number.
If you restart the job, it is going to get a new build number and it will try to push something that
doesn't exist.
So for this job, if something fails, you have to fix it and then restart from the top.
All right.
So now let's jump into the Jenkins and then do this in action.
This job does require you to install Docker on your Jenkins agent as well as a couple of plugins.
If you have followed all the videos in the setup section, you are all set.
If not, take a look at the file in this folder and then follow those before you try running this job.
So now let's jump into the Jenkins console and create our job.
All right, let's click new item.
I'm going to name this job as build push image zero one.
You can give any name, select pipeline, click.
Okay, scroll down.
Now Pipeline script is coming from our GitHub repository.
So Pipeline script from FCM under ICM Select Git.
And here you have to give the repository URL.
So I'm going to go back to my repository and then DevOps course.
And then code copy the isotopes.
Go back to Jenkins past the repository.
This is a private repository, so you do have to give that credential.
Okay.
Here we go.
The brand specifies the main branch is named main.
And here is the important part.
The script path points to the Jenkins file.
In our case, the Jenkins file for this project is inside this Push Docker image.
So you have to give the path here.
So instead of just keeping it here, you have to give.
Push doctor image.
So basically the name of the folder and then slash Jenkins file.
Click Save and let me show you my Docker hub.
In Dakar hub Raja to Dakar ID is my user ID and Unsplash the name of the repository.
So Jenkins test.
If I go inside, it's empty.
All right, so now let's go back to the Jenkins job and click Build now.
All right.
Everything ran successfully.
Let's check out the output.
I'm going to go to the console output.
It cloned the repository on the first stage and then it's running the LS command.
So it's showing all the files, the folder files inside the folder and then Docker build.
So it's building the docker and you would see the build number is one because this is the first time
I submitted this job and then it's doing the Docker logging.
Logging succeeded and then we are pushing the Docker container image.
It's showing all the layers of the Docker image.
All right.
It's pushed everything.
Then it's running Docker log out.
So success.
So let's go to our Docker hub and refresh this page.
All right.
Our new container image is here and ready to be deployed.
Now, again, this section is meant to be reusable parts, so I'm not going to show how to grab this
container image and put it in a Kubernetes deployment file, yet that's covered under a real world project
use case in another chapter.
All right, folks, that's it for this one.
I'll see you guys and girls in the next lecture.